README.md, before:

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/SqueakR?color=green)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=SqueakR) [![pkgdown](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/actions/workflows/pkgdown.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/actions/workflows/pkgdown.yaml) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/osimon81/SqueakR.svg?style=flat)]()
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/cloudposse.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40SimonOgundare)](https://twitter.com/SimonOgundare)

<!-- badges: end -->

# SqueakR: An Experiment Superstructure for DeepSqueak

Welcome to the `SqueakR` package!

## Installation

To install the CRAN release of the package, run the following code:

    install.packages(SqueakR)
    library(SqueakR)

To install the development version of `SqueakR`, run the following code:

    library(devtools)
    install_github("osimon81/SqueakR")
    library(SqueakR)

`SqueakR` represents a suite of functions and formats designed to assist researchers with processing and exploring data from experiments which use DeepSqueak for bioacoustics projects. DeepSqueak is a machine-vision program capable of aggregating detected vocalizations based on the features a call might have, allowing subsequent analysis of call syntax, significant changes in call features across groups, etc.

## Resources

The tools and resources available under `SqueakR` include:

-   The `SqueakR` [pkgdown website](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/ "SqueakR Pkgdown Website on GitHub") available through GitHub. Detailed information about its functions can be found under the [Reference](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/reference/index.html "Reference tab on pkgdown") tab. The [Get started](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/articles/SqueakR.html "Getting started tab on pkgdown") the recommended site for learning how to use the package.

-   The [main `SqueakR` Package repository](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR "The GitHub repository for SqueakR"), and the corresponding [Wiki](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/wiki "SqueakR Wiki") and [Discussions](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/discussions "Discussions page for SqueakR repo") sections.

    -   **This Discussions section** under the main SqueakR repository will be the forum for announcements, discussions, and troubleshooting anything related to either SqueakR or the Shiny SqueakR Dashboard.

    -   However, *both sites have separate wikis,* to keep documentation organized.

-   The [Shiny `SqueakR` Dashboard repository](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR-Dashboard "Repository for Shiny SqueakR Dashboard"), and the accompanying [Wiki](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR-Dashboard/wiki "SqueakR-Dashboard Wiki") section, which contains documentation for running analysis and visualizing data through the `SqueakR` Shiny dashboard.

-   The [`SqueakR`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=SqueakR "SqueakR Website on CRAN") package itself, and documentation describing its functions, on CRAN.

## Contact

If you have any questions that cannot be answered through any of these ways, feel free to contact me, Simon Ogundare, at [simon.ogundare\@columbia.edu](mailto:simon.ogundare@columbia.edu), and I'll get back to you as soon as possible.

Commit message:

added link to GitHub list

README.md, after:

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/SqueakR?color=green)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=SqueakR) [![pkgdown](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/actions/workflows/pkgdown.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/actions/workflows/pkgdown.yaml) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/osimon81/SqueakR.svg?style=flat)]()
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/cloudposse.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40SimonOgundare)](https://twitter.com/SimonOgundare)

<!-- badges: end -->

# SqueakR: An Experiment Superstructure for DeepSqueak

Welcome to the `SqueakR` package!

## Installation

To install the CRAN release of the package, run the following code:

    install.packages(SqueakR)
    library(SqueakR)

To install the development version of `SqueakR`, run the following code:

    library(devtools)
    install_github("osimon81/SqueakR")
    library(SqueakR)

`SqueakR` represents a suite of programs designed to assist researchers with processing and exploring data from experiments which use DeepSqueak for bioacoustics projects. DeepSqueak is a machine-vision program capable of aggregating detected vocalizations based on the features a call might have, allowing subsequent analysis of call syntax, significant changes in call features across groups, etc.

For reference, the entire `SqueakR` suite and documentation can be found [under this GitHub list](https://github.com/stars/osimon81/lists/squeakr).

## Resources

The tools and resources available under `SqueakR` include:

-   The `SqueakR` [pkgdown website](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/ "SqueakR Pkgdown Website on GitHub") available through GitHub. Detailed information about its functions can be found under the [Reference](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/reference/index.html "Reference tab on pkgdown") tab. The [Get started](https://osimon81.github.io/SqueakR/articles/SqueakR.html "Getting started tab on pkgdown") the recommended site for learning how to use the package.

-   The [main `SqueakR` Package repository](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR "The GitHub repository for SqueakR"), and the corresponding [Wiki](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/wiki "SqueakR Wiki") and [Discussions](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR/discussions "Discussions page for SqueakR repo") sections.

    -   **This Discussions section** under the main SqueakR repository will be the forum for announcements, discussions, and troubleshooting anything related to either SqueakR or the Shiny SqueakR Dashboard.

    -   However, *both sites have separate wikis,* to keep documentation organized.

-   The [Shiny `SqueakR` Dashboard repository](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR-Dashboard "Repository for Shiny SqueakR Dashboard"), and the accompanying [Wiki](https://github.com/osimon81/SqueakR-Dashboard/wiki "SqueakR-Dashboard Wiki") section, which contains documentation for running analysis and visualizing data through the `SqueakR` Shiny dashboard.

-   The [`SqueakR`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=SqueakR "SqueakR Website on CRAN") package itself, and documentation describing its functions, on CRAN.

## Contact

If you have any questions that cannot be answered through any of these ways, feel free to contact me, Simon Ogundare, at [simon.ogundare\@columbia.edu](mailto:simon.ogundare@columbia.edu), and I'll get back to you as soon as possible.
